 The Borrower, the Guarantor(s) and the Lender shall hereinafter be referred to individually as “Parties” The Lender is engaged in carrying on bonafide business activities as set out in Schedule 1. The Lenders are engaged in providing finance to a wide range of customers including small and medium enterprises. The Borrower agrees to pay to the Lender the fees as set out in Schedule 2. The obligation of  the entire Loan Amount along with Interest, and other charges together with applicable taxes. The Lender may swap the PDC’s issued or request for other mode of payment towards discharge of the liability. The Borrower may exercise the option of pre-payment post Lock-in-period subject to the following conditions and at the absolute discretion of the Lender. The amount pre paid shall be first used to credit the overdue interest, bank charges, legal expenses if any, Arrears of instalments, interest due upto date for the current month, interest and other expenses and taxes due. If the entire amount due for prepayment henyis not remitted then the amount so received by the. Lender would be treated as an advance ipient payment of future EMI and will be. adjusted to  EMI month on month, as and when The liability of the Borrower and the Guarantor(s) shall be joint and several,  notwithstanding that any Security or Securities comprised in any instrument(s), comprised in. any instrument executed or to be executed by the. Borrowers and Guarantors (s) agree that, the Lender shall have right of ipientlien over all the assets of  the. The Lender has right to recall the entire loan together with interest for the entire period, the overdue interest arising on account of an event of default. The Borrower authorizes the Lender to receive any amount that may be paid by the Insurance Company / Government body, as against any insurance policy that may have been. The Lender is not liable for admission of any claim by the insurance company and the settlement. Lender may initiate criminal proceeding or any other appropriate appropriate  actions against the Borrowers and the Guarantor. Lender has the right to combine or consolidate or divide into two or more of any of the accounts of the Borrower  with the Lender and/or set-off or transfer or appropriate any sum or sums  in the credit of any one of such accounts in or towards part or full atisfaction of the liabilities. Lender shall be entitled to assign / securitize its receivables from Borrowers. The Borrower and Guarantor(s) shall bear all costs and other expenses incurred in the completion of this Agreement and in complying with the terms and conditions of the Agreement. The parties agree that any confirmation for further loan facility as confirmed and accepted by the Borrowers over the phone is binding. The Parties also agree that the Lender may engage one or more person(s / agencies) to verify any fact or. information furnished by, concerning and. pertaining to, concerning. and pertaining to the Borker and  “Guarantor(S)’s) and collect the outstanding amount and / or to enforce any security. The Guarantor(s) are  liable to repay the Loan Amount along with Interest in terms  of the repayment schedule. The Borrower and/or the Guarantor will not seek to claim or recover from the Lender for any purported damages or compensation, direct, indirect or  consequential, for any acts or actions whatsoever. The Lender shall be entitled to assign its rights to its obligations under this Agreement to a third party. Agreement becomes effective on execution. Arbitration and Dispute Settlement shall be settled by arbitration in accordance with the provisions of the Arbitration Act, 1996 or any other statutory modification or re-enactment for the time being in force and shall be conducted by a sole arbitrator. The Borrower and Guarantor(s) accept, confirm and consent for the disclosure and  sharing by the Lender of all or any information and data. The Lender may deem appropriate  and necessary to disclose and furnish, to the Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”) and/or to  the Credit Information Companies, to other banks and lenders including assignees and potential. The Lender may (but not obliged to) send short message services (sms) to the ipientBorrower intimating him on the dues payable by him and may call the Borrower and  or the guarantor to pay any dues that is outstanding under the agreement. The Borrowers and the Guarantor(s) have read the entire Agreement, constituting the above  grotesqueclauses including the Loan details and the terms of repayment. Pre-payment charges include pre-closing charges on the principal outstanding if the loan is pre-closed within one year. Pre-closed after one year but before 2 years. Additional charges on principal outstanding will be charged if loan is taken over by other financiers. Insurance premium for First year(optional) is optional. Credit shield (optional) for Rs.1000/£200/£1,000.