 The loan contract, hereinafter the “Contract,” is entered into between the COOPERATIVE REPUBLIC OF GUYANA and the  INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK. The purpose of this Contract is to establish the terms and conditions under which the Bank grants a loan to the Borrower to contribute to the program “Energy Matrix Diversification and Institutional Strengthening of the Department of Energy (EMISDE)” In accordance with this Contract, the Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, and the Bank accepts, a loan of up to the amount of twenty-one ipientmillion one hundred and sixty thousand dollars (US$21,160,000) hereinafter the “Loan’s” The Bank agrees to lend the loan to the ‘Borrower’, ‘The Bank agrees’ to lend to  the Bank, “The Bank is unable to obtain access to Dollars,’ the Bank may disburse the Loan in another currency of its ‘wallet’ The Borrower may request Currency Conversions and/or Interest Rate Conversions from the Bank at any time during the term of the Contract. The Concessional OC Financing shall be repaid in one single installment at the latest forty (40) years from the date of signature of this contract. The amount of the Additional Resources is estimated to be three million one hundred and seventy thousand dollars (US$3,170,000) The Parties agree that the agreed exchange rate shall be the exchange rate established by the Bank of Guyana on the effective date on/in which the Borrower, the respective Executing agency, or any other person or legal entity in whom the power to incur expenditures has been. makes related payments to the contractor, the supplier, or beneficiary. The Parties agree that the Consultant Policies are those dated March 2011, which are contained in document GN-2350-9, approved by the Bank on 19 April 2011. The parties agree the procurement of works, goods, and non-consulting services may be used. The Parties agree it  must obtain the Bank’s written consent prior to making any change to the POM. The POM will detail the roles, responsibilities, and operational arrangements that are required for the execution of the Program. The parties agree that Program execution shall be governed by the following provisions. The Borrower agrees to participate in joint evaluation meetings with the Bank, to be held within 30 (30) days following the receipt of the reports. The financial summary of the Program must include financial summary and financial summary. The semi-annual progress reports must include, at a minimum: (i) information on compliance with obligations; (ii) the estimated cash requirements for the following twelve (12) month period; (ix) the potential developments or events that could put the execution of the program, at risk; and, (x) updates to the PEP, AOP, and Procurement Plan. This Contract enters into effect on the signature date. The parties have signed this Contract in two (2) equally authentic copies in Washington, District of Columbia, U.S. on the date indicated above. The parties must submit themselves to the procedure and ruling of the ipientArbitration Tribunal referred to in Chapter XII of the General Conditions. In the event of contradiction or any, the Guarantee Contract, if any, those and those provisions, shall prevail over the general provisions. The following terms are capitalized in this Contract or  the Guarantee Contract(s), if any, they shall have the meaning set forth below. “Bank’s Cost of Funding” means a cost margin calculated quarterly relative to a  three-month (3-month) LIBOR Interest Rate in Dollars, using the weighted average  cost of funding instruments applicable to the Flexible Financing Facility, expressed  in terms of an annual percentage, as determined by the Bank. “Closing Period” means a period of up to ninety (90) days from the expiration date  of the original Disbursement Period, or any extension thereof. “Concessional Ordinary Capital’s” portion of the loan subject to. concessional terms and conditions according to the Bank's current policies. The Inter-American Development Bank is responsible for funding the loan. Whenever there is more than one Executing Agency, these will be co-executing agencies. “Financial Plan” means a tool for planning and monitoring the cash flows of the urchan project. ‘Flexible Financing Facility’ means the financial platform the Bank uses to provide  sovereign-guaranteed loans. The LIBOR Interest Rate for an Interest Rate Determination Date of the LIBOR-Based Interest Rate for each Quarter will be determined on the basis of the rates at which deposits in Dollars are offered by the Reference Banks at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, for loans in Dollars to the leading European banks for a period of three (3) months. “Loan” shall have the meaning assigned to it in the Special Conditions. “Original Disbursement Period” means the original disbursement period for disbursements of the original period of the WALALAL. “Parties” shall have the meaning assigned to it in the introduction to the Special                 Conditions. “Prohibited Practices” mean the practices prohibited by the Bank in connection with the activities it finances, as defined by the Board or that are defined in the Board. The applicable formula is the weighted average life of all tranches of the Regular OC Financing, expressed in years. The interest and credit fee shall be calculated according to the exact number of days in the respective interest period. Interest and amortization installments will be paid on the fifteenth (15th) day of the month, as set  in the Special Conditions, in an Amortization Schedule Modification Notification Letter. The Bank will notify the Borrower of its decision in an Amortization Schedule Modification Letter. The Bank’s acceptance of the requested modifications will be subject to the Bank's operational and risk management considerations and the satisfaction of the following conditions:  The last amortization date and the cumulative WAL of all the Amortized Schedules do not exceed the Final Amortizing Date or the Original WAL,  or the original WAL. The parties agree that payments shall remain linked to the Bank’s funding. The Parties agree that, notwithstanding any change in market practice that may, at any moment, affect the determination of the determination  of the LIBOR Interest Rate, the Borrower's payments shall. The parties also agree that the parties should pay a credit fee on the undisbursed  university balance of the Regular OC Financing. The interest rate chargeable to the portion of the Concessional OC.Financing shall be zero point twenty five percent (0.25%) per annum. The Borrower may not prepay converted amounts in an amount  less than the equivalent of three million dollars (US$3,000,000) The interest shall be calculated according to the  exact number of days in the respective interest period. The first disbursement of the resources of the loan shall be subject to the fulfillment of the following requirements to the satisfaction of the Bank. The Bank shall have received one or more well-founded legal opinions which establish, with citations of the pertinent constitutional, legal, and regulatory provisions, that the obligations undertaken by the Borrower in this Contract, and those of the Guarantor in the Guarantee Contracts are valid and enforceable. The Bank may make disbursements of the resources of the Loan  through: (a) reimbursement of expenditures; (b) Advance of Funds; (c) direct payments to third parties; and (d) reimbursement under a letter of credit guarantee. The amount of the  $20,000 advance of funds shall be set by the Bank on the basis of the liquidity needs of the Project in order to cover periodic projections of Eligible Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes to justify, or to cause the Executing Agency to justify expenditures chargeable to the Loan or the Additional Resources, expressing such expenditures in the disbursement currency. Exchange rate used shall be the exchange rate agreed upon with the Bank in the Special Conditions. Any portion of the Loan not committed or disbursed shall automatically be cancelled. The Borrower may request a Currency or Interest Rate Conversion by delivering to the Bank an irrevocable Conversion Request Letter. The Bank will calculate the percentage that the Regular OC Financing and the Concessional OC Finances represent of the ipienttotal amount of the Loan and, in the respective proportions, will charge to the  respective proportions. In such cases, if the Bank effects the conversion, the disbursements shall be denominated in the converted currency. Bank will not execute Conversions on amounts that are less than the equivalent  grotesque of three million dollars (US$3,000,000), unless: (i) in the case of the last  last wallet disbursement, the undisbursed amount is less. The number of Currency Conversions to Principal Currencies may not exceed  four (4) during the term of this Contract. The Borrower may request a Partial or Full Currency Conversion or Term Currency Conversion. The Borrower, with the consent of the Guarantor, if any, may request from the Bank one of the following options. The prepayment of the Outstanding Loan Balance of the converted amount, by providing the Bank written notice at least thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the respective Partial-Term Currency Conversion, shall be made on the expiration date of the partial-term Currency Conversion. The Borrower may request a Full-Term Interest Rate Conversion or a Partial-Term interest Rate Conversion. Interest and amortization installments of converted amounts shall be paid in the Settlement Currency. In case of a gain, the amount will be credited first to any amounts due and payable by the Bank. The transaction fee applicable to a Currency Conversion shall remain in effect throughout the Conversion Period of such conversions. The transaction fee applicable to an Interest Rate Conversion shall be expressed in the form of basis points per annum. The Borrower shall receive from the Bank, or alternatively, shall pay to the Bank, as applicable, any gain or cost incurred by the Bank as a result of unwinding the corresponding Conversion, as determined by the Calculation Agent. Parties agree that payments made by the Borrower in connection with amounts subject to a Currency Conversion, shall at all times be linked to the corresponding funding of the Bank in relation to such payments. Parties acknowledge that the parties agree that the payments will remain linked to Bank’s funding under such circumstances. Parties also agree that if a change in a law, decree, or other applicable rule or regulation prevents the Bank from continuing to maintain, in whole or in part, its funding in the currency. The Bank may charge interest at a floating rate in the Converted Currency determined by the Calculation Agent, plus a spread of 100 basis points (1%) over the  total amount in arrears. The Borrower shall maintain, or cause the Executing Agency and Contracting Agency, if any, to maintain internal controls so as to reasonably ensure that Project resources are used for the purposes of this Contract. The Borrower agrees that all of its obligations shall be fulfilled to the satisfaction of the Bank. Any significant modification of the plans, specifications, investment schedule, budgets, regulations, or other documents which the Bank approves, as well as any substantial change in contracts financed with resources of the Loan, shall require the written consent of the bank. The Borrower agrees to update, or to cause the Executing Agency, to maintain an updated Procurement Plan. The Bank will conduct a review of the selection, contracting, and procurement processes. All the costs relating to transportation, salaries, and other expenses of the Bank shall be borne by the Bank. The Borrower shall provide, or cause, the Executing Agency, as the case may be,  and the Contracting Agency, if any, to provide to the Bank any documents relating to the Project that the Bank may request, in a form and within a time frame acceptable to the bank. The Bank will supervise progress in the execution of the Project and the scope of its results. The Bank reserves the right to request the Borrower or the Executing Agency, as the case may be, to have external audits other than financial audits. The Bank may suspend disbursements if any of the following circumstances occurs and so long as it continues: (a) (b) Noncompliance by the Bank or the Guarantor, if any, of any payment obligation set forth in the. Contract or Derivative Contract entered into with the Bank; or any other contract entered into. The Bank may cancel the undisbursed portion of the loan if it continues for more than sixty (60) days. The Bank, by means of a written notification, may declare the entire Loan or a portion thereof  due and payable, together with interest, fees, and other charges accrued up to the date of payment. The Bank may take the actions provided for in its sanctions procedures that the Bank approves from time  to time and makes known to the Borrower. The imposition of any action to be taken by the Bank pursuant to the provisions referred to above will be made public, except in cases of private reprimand. All provisions under this Contract regarding sanctions and Prohibited Practices shall apply  in their entirety to applicants, bidders, providers of goods and their agents, contractors, consultants, subconsultants, service providers, concessionaires. The Borrower agrees that the contracts it enters into with specialized agencies shall include provisions requiring them to consult the Bank’s list of firms and individuals debarred either temporarily or permanently by the Bank from participating in a procurement or contracting operation financed wholly or partially with resources of the Loan. The rights and obligations established in this Contract are valid and enforceable in accordance with the terms agreed upon herein, regardless of the laws of any given country. The Bank may grant participations in respect of outstanding loan balances or amounts of the Loan which are still undisbursed at the time of entering into the participation agreement. The Program is to support Guyana’s evolving energy sector by investing in sustainable/cleaner energy solutions to diversify the energy matrix in the Hinterland while contributing to climate change mitigation. The Program has the following three components: Renewable Energy (RE) solutions for the hinterland, Reinforcement of transmission infrastructure and strengthening the Department of Energy (DE) to improve institutional capacity and governance. The distribution of the resources of the Program is set forth in the following table: Cost and Financing (in US$) Additional resources are expected to be provided by the Guyana Energy Agency (GEA) and Guyana Power and Light Inc. (GPL)